hello and welcome to Catan crackerjacks
today I'm going to show you how to make
these delicious pretzel dogs these are
all beef franks filled and stuffed with
melted cheddar cheese all wrapped up in
a soft pretzel dough and baked to a
golden brown perfection these are the
ingredients that you'll need so let's
get started now to start off of course
I'm going to make up some pretzel dough
here I have a separate video that shows
how I do this and I go into more depth
in that video but I'm just going to give
you a basic rundown here I've already
got some warm milk and sugar in a medium
bowl here to that I'm going to add in
some butter and I'm going to sprinkle
some active dry yeast on top of that and
I'm just gonna let that sit for a few
moments to let the yeast kind of awake
in and liven up a little bit I'm going
to add in my salt and flour and just
using my hand here I'm going to mix this
together until it forms a dough and once
that comes together and forms a dough
I'm going to knead it for just a minute
or two and then I'm going to lightly oil
a bowl I'm going to cover this with a
damp towel put it into a warm place to
rise until it's about double in size
again I'll go into more detail on that
in a separate video and I will put a
link to that video down below in the
description box now while I'm waiting
for my dough to rise I'm going to
prepare my hotdogs these are all beef
hot dogs you can use whatever kind of
hot dogs that you want you can also use
sausage for this if you wanted to but to
make sure that the pretzel dough
actually cooks on the inside you want to
make sure that your hotdogs are nice and
dry so I just got a paper towel here and
I'm going to dry off my hotdogs and I'm
just going to set them off onto a plate
and then I'm going to take some cheddar
cheese here this is just a chunk cheddar
you can use whatever kind of cheese that
you want to this happens to be sharp
cheddar I'm just gonna cut these into
thin slices and then cut the slices in
half you just want a small thin strip or
so of cheese to put inside of each
hotdog and you don't have to stuff these
with cheese if you don't want to you can
just go ahead and leave them plain and
then use a cheese sauce as a dipping
sauce that's perfectly fine
I just like to stuff mine because well
I'm a cheese hecht but all you need to
do to stuff these is to slice through
your hotdog you don't want to cut all
the way through you want to leave a
little
connected at the bottom so you know your
hotdogs don't come apart and you have
two halves but you just want to cut a
little slit just deep enough that your
cheese slice will fit in there just go
ahead and gently put your cheese into
the hotdog and then go ahead and set
that off to the side now that we have
the hotdogs done I'm going to go ahead
and get my baking soda solution done
I've got 1 cup of hot water here I'm
going to add in one and a half
tablespoons of just plain baking soda
and you just want to go ahead and stir
that until the baking soda is dissolved
and then you want to place that into a
wide and shallow dish I'm using a pie
plate here for that now once your dough
has doubled in size you go ahead and
take it out of your bowl and you want to
cut this into 8 equal pieces just cut it
into fourths and then cut the fourth in
half so you have 8 equal pieces and then
go ahead and set all the pieces off
inside we're only going to use one piece
at a time here and to form your pretzel
dogs you want to take 1 piece of dough
here and you want to roll this out into
a long rope this rope here that I'm
using is about two two and a half feet
long or so 24 13 inches or so it's
actually quite long once you get that
rolled out to a rope you want to use
your fingertips and press this down flat
that will make it easier to wrap around
your hotdog and then you want to take
your dog and starting at one end you
want to place your dough and leave the
end underneath the hotdog and the bottom
part of the hotdog and you want to
gently roll this dough around your
hotdog make sure that the dough wraps or
overlaps itself a little bit on each
turn and you just want to keep rolling
this until you get all the way to the
other end and once you get to the end go
ahead and stretch it a little bit so the
other end sticks at the bottom of your
hotdog so it looks like a little mummy
here and once you get these all done now
you can go ahead and dump them in your
baking soda solution to make them
officially a pretzel just take them one
by one roll them in that solution and
then place them back on to your baking
sheet and then before these have a
chance to dry I usually only do a couple
at a time here you want to sprinkle
these with some pretzel salt this is
just a coarse grained salt you can find
this in most grocery stores
you could also use kosher salt if you
really wanted to but pretzel salt is
ideal pretzel salts really cheap so
might as well use it a little goes a
long way but it really does make a
difference so just sprinkle a little bit
of salt on the top of each one of these
and then you want to bake these in a
preheated 450 degree oven for between 9
and 11 minutes or so you want to keep an
eye on them you want them to be nice and
golden-brown and when they get to your
desired doneness go ahead and take them
out let them cool for just a minute and
then I've got a couple tablespoons of
butter here and I'm just going to use a
pastry brush and I'm going to brush the
tops and sides of my pretzel dogs with
this melted butter this is going to make
my pretzel dough or the pretzels wrapped
around the dogs super soft it's going to
labor these so amazing little butter
makes everything more delicious and then
you can go ahead and serve these up any
way you so choose I like to be mine in
ketchup if you want to do a beer cheese
sauce you can do that or you can just
eat them plain as they are and there you
go that's how easy it is to make pretzel
dogs at home I hope you guys give this
recipe a try if you do be sure to let me
know how you like it down below in the
comments and if you liked this video be
sure to give a thumbs up I would greatly
appreciate it
subscribe for more deliciousness and
keep up to date on all my latest videos
thanks so much for watching and we'll
see you next time